---
layout: tutorial
title: Objects
categories: javascript-basics
tags: day1
---

JavaScript is an object-oriented programming language. Don't worry about that means. If someone says stuff like that in front of you, they are trying to show off. Change the subject and ask them what cool things they've made recently.

Here's the short version: objects lets you think of your made up programming things as if they were real things. It's kind of like having imaginary friends. Everything in JavaScript is an object. 2 is an object and so is the string "Object". That's great and wonderful, but let's look at something a little more practical. Let's talk about my dog again.

	var dog;
	dog = {};
	
The variable `dog` is now a new object. That is great, wonderful, and absolutely boring. Let's have a little more fun with this.

	var dog = {
		petName: "Marley",
		breed: "Goberian",
		age: 4,
		greet: function () { console.log("Woof! My name is " + this.name + ".") }
	};

We've successfully created an object in JavaScript. We can now ask our object to do stuff.

	dog.petName; // returns "Marley"
	dog.age; // returns 4
	dog.greet(); // prints  "Woof! My name is Marley."
	
You made a JavaScript version of my dog. Awesome! Once our dog is created, it's easy to add stuff to it.

	dog.bestFriend = "Bucu the Cat";

The dot notation is great, but we can also treat the object like an array.

	dog['petName']; // returns "Marley"
	dog['petName'] = "Warley"; // I just changed it to his evil alter-ego
	
Why would you ever want to do this? Dots are amazing. Brackets and strings are a pain. It will come up. Trust me. We don't have time to go through it right now, but I don't want you giving me funny looks later when it comes up, so I mentioned it.

You might of missed this, so I will repeat it because it's worth it: You can store functions as object attributes. You can even push them into arrays. Here is an example.

	var yell, dance, dog;
	
	yell = function (personThatMakesMeAngry) {
		console.log("AHHH! " + personThatMakesMeAngry + "!!!");
	};
	dance = function () {console.log("*Does a happy dance!*")}
	
	var thingsToDo = [yell, dance];
	
	dog = {
		petName: "Marley",
		yell: thingsToDo[0],
		dance: thingsToDo[1]
	};
	
	dog.yell("Poop"); // "AHHH! Poop!!!"
	dog.dance(); // "*Does a happy dance!*"
	
You would almost never do something like this in real life. I made this purposely complicated just to demonstrate a few points. We created two variables and stored some functions in them. We stored those variables in an array just for fun.

Then we created a `dog` object that learned how to do things from that array.